SECTION 1. EXECUTIVE BOARD OFFICERS
The officers of this organization shall include: president, external vice president, internal vice president, treasurer, and secretary.

The specific powers and duties of each officer are outlined in the By Laws of this constitution.


SECTION 2. TERMS OF OFFICE
a. Executive Board Officers elect will undergo a training period for the remainder of the semester and hold office for one year from the date of their installation, which will be the last general meeting of the Spring semester.
b. Executive Board Officers may not hold the same office for more than two years, but may hold a different office.

SECTION 3. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
The date of nominations and elections shall be held at the discretion of the Executive Board late spring semester. However, additional candidates for office may be nominated before the election process, which will take place at the next general meeting following nominations. During election candidates for office may only be nominated for two offices. Candidates may only run for 1 office. Candidates for the position of President and/or Vice President should have held a position as an officer for 1 year at anytime prior to candidacy.

SECTION 4. VOTING
Voting shall be by secret ballot. Candidates must receive a simple majority of the votes cast. Rules for the voting process (i.e. Question and Answer, Pros and Cons, and etc.) are held at the discretion of the President and must be approved by 3/4s of the Executive Board. In the case of a tie, the results shall be decided upon by the Executive Board. In the event where the majority abstains for a position, nominations for that position occurs the same day, and elections will be rescheduled to the discretion of the Executive Board.


SECTION 5. QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS AND REPLACEMENT
a. Only active members or associative members who have been a member of the Virginia Tech FASA organization for at least one full academic semester may become officers.

b. Should there be a vacancy in the Presidency during the year, the Vice President shall act as President until a new president is elected. Open nominations shall be held at the next general meeting. The Executive Council will then elect the new president by a simple majority vote at the next Council meeting.

c. Should there be a vacancy in any office during the year, open nominations shall be held at the next officer meeting and shall be decided by the officer board. The Executive Council will then elect the new officer by a simple majority vote at the next Council meeting.