SECTION 1. EXECUTIVE COUNCIL


The powers and duties of the Executive Council shall be:

a. It shall be the governing body of the organization.

b. It shall determine and carry out the goals of the organization.

c. It shall plan and coordinate all activities of the organization.

d. It shall make any decisions concerning replacement of officers and committee chairpersons, progressing with impeachment procedures, and consider all matters of vital importance concerning the organization.


SECTION 2. HISTORIAN/S


The powers and duties of the Historian/s shall be:


a. To keep records of the activities and events of the organization on social media (Facebook albums and Youtube).

b. To take pictures at all the organization’s affairs.

c. To maintain and create a display about the organization during:


GOBBLERFEST

FILIPINO AMERICAN HISTORY MONTH

THE ANNUAL CULTURAL NIGHT

ANY EVENT NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WHERE A DISPLAY CASE OR BOARD IS NEEDED

d. To present a slideshow of the year’s events at Cultural Night and at any other special events, where it is deemed appropriate.

e. To update the President of the progress of their assigned committees.


SECTION 3. D7 REPRESENTATIVES


The powers and duties of the D7 Representatives shall be:

a. To gather necessary information about upcoming conferences and conventions and to organize attendance.

b. To organize transportation, lodging, and registration fees for intercollegiate events including but not limited to (D7 Olympics, FIND Inc. Dialogue, and attending other Culture Shows).

c. To work alongside the President regarding Alumni Relations (ex: Alumni Panels).

d. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

e. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

f. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

g. The D7 Chair and the Sports Chair will work as co-chairs as the D7 Committee.


SECTION 4. CULTURE CHAIR


The powers and duties of the Culture shall be:

a. To hold programs pertinent to the education of the members of FASA and the Virginia Tech community.

b. To organize and make culturally relevant the itinerary and goings of the Pig Event.

c. To organize food distribution (Kamayan) at Fun Day.

d. To be held responsible for selecting the honorary candidate of the FASA scholarship and setting the standards of the scholarship through the Rhonyll Seballos Scholarship Board. * See Article VII of the FASA Constitution.

e. To work alongside the Internal Vice President in the planning and execution of Culture Show.

f. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

g. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

h. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.


SECTION 5. EVENTS COMMITTEE


The duties and powers of the coordinator shall be:

a. To plan all major events within the organization and between other organizations within Virginia Tech.

b. To reserve appropriate facilities and equipment in addition to providing adequate staffing for each event.

c. To preside over the @fasa_eats Instagram account.

d. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

e. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

f. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

g. To update the officer board on all projects and activities.

The major events include (but are not limited to):


FALL PICNIC

THANKSGIVING DINNER

FUN DAY

TAILGATE

MR. FASA

ROAD TRIP

SECTION 6. FUNDRAISING COMMITTEE


a. To organize and control fundraisers. They include (but are not limited to):


KINGS DOMINION

LUMPIA SALE

INTERNATIONAL STREET FAIR

CHANGE WARS

b. To report back, give earnings and any other financial dealings to the Treasurer.

c. To seek out new fundraising opportunities for the organization.

d. To preside over the @fasathrifts Instagram Account.

e. To work with the treasurer in understanding the organization's financial needs.

f. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

g. To do reports and evaluations of all projects and activities.

h. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

i. To hold an inventory manager position with Lane Stadium during Virginia Tech Football Concessions.


SECTION 7. HOSPITALITY COMMITTEE


The Hospitality Committee will be arranged as a team as each committee member heads and organizes specific tasks pertaining to their strengths.

General duties include (but are not limited to):

a. To introduce and continue relations with new members of FASA. This would include freshman, transfer students.

b. To introduce and enthusiastically support the Kuya/Ate program within FASA throughout the year.

c. To help develop and strengthen fellowship among members through various activities. Specific activities include:


RECRUITMENT

SOCIALS

CHRISTMAS GIFT EXCHANGE

BIG/LITTLE SELFIE CHALLENGE

SENIOR BANQUET

d. To reserve appropriate facilities and equipment in addition to providing adequate staffing for each events.

e. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

f. To do reports and evaluations of all projects and activities.

g. To unite old and new FASA members both.

h. To coordinate and organize the Culture Night Brunch and hotel reservations.

i. To work alongside the External Vice President, all three officers (the External Vice President and the two Hospitality Chairs) will serve as the Hospitality committee.

j. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

k. To appoint family heads.


SECTION 8. PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE


The powers and duties of the Promotions Committee shall be:

a. To inform the community about all of the organization’s activities through whatever means necessary. (i.e. information distribution, events advertising)

b. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

c. To be responsible for all forms of advertisement.

d. To maintain FASA’s Facebook page in collaboration with the Website Committee.

e. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

f. To do reports and evaluations of all projects and activities.

g. To create and organize the Culture Night program.

h. To handle all FASA merchandise and apparel, including the designing, ordering, and managing of the FASA shirt-design contest.


SECTION 9. SERVICE COMMITTEE


The powers and duties of the Service Committee shall be:

a. To organize already known major service events for the organization, which include (but are not limited to):


RELAY FOR LIFE

THE BIG EVENT

CHARITY BALL

VALENTINE’S DAY FUNDRAISER

THRIFT SHOP


b. To organize and find community service opportunities for the members of the club to sponsor or participate in.

c. To preside over the @fasathrifts Instagram Account.

d. To keep a record of events and hours in which the members of the organization worked.

e. To relay any information to the general body of any progress.

f. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

g. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

h. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

i. To keep relations with philanthropy.


SECTION 10. SPORTS CHAIR


The powers and duties of the Sports Committee shall be:

a. To organize all sporting events.

b. To decide on which events to participate.

c. To organize practice schedules as necessary.

d. To recruit players as necessary.

e. To work out financial details with the Treasurer.

f. To update the overseeing Executive Board member of the committee’s progress.

g. To do reports and evaluations of all projects and activities.

h. To organize the collection and distribution of tickets for Virginia Tech football games.

i. To organize and plan out FASA Fun Day.

j. To organize all pertinent logistics of Winter Classic in collaboration with the University of Virginia (OYFA - Organization of Young Filipino Americans).

k. To inform the Promotions Chairperson if publicity is needed.

l. To preside over the @fitxfasa Instagram account. m. The Sports Chair and the D7 Chair will work as co-chairs as the D7 Committee.

NOTE: The Sports Chair will select two non-officer members of FASA to serve as the Offense and Defense Captains for Winter Classic and VT Intramural Football.

