This version of the constitution is dated April 17, 2018 and ratified by the Filipino American Student Association on April 18, 2018. This version is superior to all prior or updated versions. Any new changes must be made according to Article VIII of this Constitution.

This version of the constitution is dated March 29, 2022 and ratified by the Filipino American Student Association on March 29, 2022. This version is superior to all prior or updated versions. Any new changes must be made according to Article VIII of this Constitution.

THE BY LAWS OF THE FILIPINO AMERICAN STUDENT ASSOCIATION ARTICLE I POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS

SECTION 1. PRESIDENT
The duties and powers of the President shall be:


a. To preside at all meetings.
b. To be responsible for the University Relations aspect of the organization.
c. To serve, along with the Internal and External Vice Presidents, as the official representative of the organization.
d. To serve as a representative on the Asian American Student Union Council.
e. To assist the Vice President in the coordination of the Culture Night Committees.
f. To appoint special committees as necessary and proper to the well-being of this organization.
g. To serve as a liaison between FASA and FASA’s alumni.
h. To update the Faculty Advisor of the organization’s progress and scheduled events.
i. To call special meetings at their discretion.
j. To make sure all officers are on task and abiding by the VT Student Code of Conduct
k. To inform the office of the Student Organizations on any changes in the Constitution at their discretion.
l. To update the Executive Council of their progress.

SECTION 2. EXTERNAL VICE PRESIDENT

The powers and duties of the External Vice President shall be:

a. To take on the above responsibilities in the absence of the President.
b. To serve, along with the President and Internal Vice President, as the official representative of the organization.
c. To serve as the prime representative on the Asian American Student Union Council.
d. To be the representative for FASA at VT among other D7 Presidents and Vice Presidents, rather than solely the President.
e. To work alongside the two Hospitality Chairs, all three officers (the External Vice President and the two Hospitality Chairs) will serve as the Hospitality committee.
f. To update the Executive Council of their progress.

SECTION 3. INTERNAL VICE PRESIDENT

The powers and duties of the Internal Vice President shall be:

a. To take on the above responsibilities in the absence of the President.
b. To serve, along with the President and External Vice President, as the official representative of the organization.
c. To serve as the Culture Night coordinator and create the Culture Night committees along with the Culture Committee.
Culture Night Committees include:

STAGE DESIGN
SCRIPT
PROMOTIONS
COSTUMES
MUSIC
FASHION SHOW
CHOREOGRAPHY (TRADITIONAL & MODERN)
TECHNICAL PROGRAM
HOSPITALITY (BRUNCH AND HOTEL RESERVATIONS)
AFTER PARTY

d. To make sure all standing and special committees are on task.
e. To update the President on the progress of the Cultural Night committee.
f. To update the Executive Council of their progress.

SECTION 4. SECRETARY

The powers and duties of the Secretary shall be:

a. To keep records (minutes) of the business carried on at all general, officers, Executive Council, and special meetings and to provide minutes from previous meetings.
b. To maintain and update the FASA listserv and social media outlets as needed.
c. To be responsible for informing all members of meetings or events through the FASA listserv and social media outlets.
d. To be responsible for any correspondence with outside relations and mailings.
e. To maintain a file of all committee reports, projects, and evaluations.
f. To update the Executive Council of their progress.
g. To update the President on the progress of their assigned committees.
h. To maintain a master copy of the calendar for the year of events and the most recently updated Constitution.

SECTION 5. TREASURER
The powers and duties of the Treasurer shall be:

a. To keep all financial records of the organization.
b. To review all financial accounts and budgets monthly and make recommendations to the Executive Council.
c. To be responsible for the FASA debit card.
d. To obtain a bank account for the organization, and for the prompt transition of any records to the preceding officer.
e. To sign checks in concurrence with the designated officers.
f. To assure proper spending of the organization’s finances as necessary and proper to the wellbeing of the organization.
g. To maintain a list of current paid members, and coordinate with the secretary for listserv purposes.
h. To pay all bills and reimbursements which must be accounted for by a receipt.
i. To prepare, submit, and present an annual budget request to the appropriate funding board at the University.
j. To hold a cash manager position with Lane Stadium during Virginia Tech Football Concessions.
k. To update the President on the progress of their assigned committees.